# EcoTrace

## Introduction
EcoTrace is an application designed to raise awareness of green travel. The problem it addresses is that most people lack awareness of the carbon footprint generated by their daily lifestyle, which limits their ability to make informed decisions that could reduce their environmental impact. By combining scientific data with user data, EcoTrace has created a personalized carbon footprint awareness and tracking application that helps users understand, measure, and manage their own carbon footprint. Users can decide on their mode of transportation by viewing the carbon emissions displayed for different transportation options. In this way, the application encourages users to make smarter decisions about their lifestyle.
## Features
- **Transportation Carbon Footprint Tracking**：Focuses on modes of transportation in daily activities, monitoring their environmental impact in terms of carbon footprint.
- **Map Functionality**：Shows users the carbon footprint difference of traveling from point A to point B using different modes of transportation, encouraging users to choose low-carbon travel options.
- **Green Travel Recommendations**：Provides suggestions for eco-friendly modes of transportation.

## Tech Stack

### Programming Languages
- JavaScript

### Frameworks and Libraries
- Front-end Framework: React Native
- Backend Database: Firebase
- Machine Learning Server-side Framework: Express.js
### Other Technical Tools
- **User Interface**：Utilizes React Native elements and libraries, such as react-navigation and react-native-paper.
- **Maps and Location Services**：
  - react-native-maps
  - @react-native-community/geolocation
  - react-native-google-places-autocomplete
  - Google Maps Directions API
  - Google Places API
- **Date and Time Handling**：
  - moment
  - moment-timezone
  - react-native-modal-datetime-picker
  - react-native-month-year-picker
- **Data Visualization**：
  - victory-native
  - react-native-chart-kit
- **Data Authentication and Storage**：
  - Firebase Auth
  - Firebase Firestore
- **Machine Learning Model Servicing**：Use Express.js to set up API on Node.js server

## Installation and Setup
### Server-side Installation

```bash
#  Enter the Server_ML directory
cd Server_ML

# Install express
npm install express

# Start the server
node server.js
```

### Client-side Installation

```bash
# Enter the EcoTrace directory
cd EcoTrace

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the application
npm start
```

## Learn More

To learn how to setup the development environment, check out the [React Native Environment Setup Documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup).

To learn React Native, check out the [React Native Documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/getting-started).

To learn Firebase, check out the [React Native Firebase Documentation](https://rnfirebase.io/).


